# SAM Help

These instructions are for writing and editing content and building SAM's Help system.

Writing and editing content requires knowledge of reStructuredText (.rst) format. ReStructuredText is a text markup language, see https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html.

The build process uses the Sphinx documentation generator. Sphinx is a Python package that converts .rst files into structured html documents and documents in other formats, see https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/.

## Requirements

* Python
* Python packages listed in `requirements.txt`
* Make

Tested on Windows with Python 3.12.10 and GNU Make 4.4.1.

## Build Instructions

1. Set up a Python virtual environment and install the packages listed in requirements.txt.

   You only need to build the environment once. After the environment is built, you can start with Step 2 to bulid Help.

2. Open a terminal window and go to the SAM doc folder.

   ```
   cd path/to/sam_dev/SAM/doc 
   ```

3. Activate the Python environment.

   For example, using Python's virtual environment manager `venv`:

   ```
   path/to/sam-help-venv/Scripts/activate
   ```

3. Run Make.

   ```
   make html
   ```

   To clean the build first, run `make clean`.

4. If there are any build errors, fix them by editing the appropriate .rst file(s).

5. When the build finishes, HTML and associated files should be in the `path/to/sam_dev/SAM/deploy/runtime/help/html` folder.

To see Help, open the index.html file.

## Help Context IDs

Help context IDs are defined in different places depending on the context.

The Help context ID consists of the folder and file name of the HTML for the Help topic.

For example, the Help topic for the behind-the-meter Battery Dispatch input page is "battery-storage/battery_dispatch_btm".

The Help ID is the path to the HTML file without the `.html` extension. The extension is added by the `ShowHelp()` function in `SAM/main.cpp`.

## SAM Input Pages

Help IDs for SAM input pages are defined in `startup.lk`. The `addpage()` function for the input page "help" parameter points to the folder and file name of the HMTL file for the page's Help topic.

For example, for the **Battery Dispatch** page for behind the meter batteries, the help id is defined by the `'help' = 'battery-storage/battery_dispatch_btm'` parameter:

```
addpage( [[ {'name'='Battery Dispatch Peak Shaving BTM', 'caption'='Peak Shaving'} ],
	      [ {'name'='Battery Dispatch Grid Power Targets', 'caption'='Grid Power Targets'} ],
		  [ {'name'='Battery Dispatch Battery Power Targets', 'caption'='Battery Power Targets'}],
		  [ {'name'='Battery Dispatch Manual', 'caption'='Manual'}],
		  [ {'name'='Battery Dispatch Retail Rate', 'caption'='Retail Rate'} ]],
		  { 'sidebar'='Battery Dispatch', 
            'help'='battery-storage/battery_dispatch_btm',
			'exclusive_var' = 'batt_dispatch_excl',
			'exclusive_header_pages' = ['Battery Dispatch Common', 'Battery Dispatch Standalone Options BTM'], 
            'exclusive_tabs'=true, 'exclusive_hide'=true, 'bin_name'='Battery' } );
```


## SAM Windows

Help IDs for SAM windows are defined by the event handler in the window definition.

For example, for the "Combine Cases" window (`SAM/combinecases.cpp`):

```
void CombineCasesDialog::OnEvt(wxCommandEvent& e)
{
	switch (e.GetId())
	{
		case wxID_HELP:
			SamApp::ShowHelp("window-reference/win_combine_cases");
			break;
		case ID_chlCases:
			{
...
}
```

For the "Edit Losses" window (`SAM/lossadj.cpp`):

```
	void OnCommand( wxCommandEvent &e )
	{
		switch( e.GetId() )
		{
		case wxID_HELP:
			SamApp::ShowHelp("window-reference/win_edit_losses");
			break;
```

HTML files generated by Sphinx are organized into folders of related topics.

To find all SAM window Help IDs, search the SAM project for "wxID_HELP", or more specifically "case wxID_HELP" and "if (evt.GetId() == wxID_HELP)".

## Editing .rst Files

recommend text editor that can open folder as workspace to open `SAM/doc` folder.

## Notes

Do not include labels (`.. _label-name`) and references to labels `\`:doc: <>\`` in snip files in the includes folder.

## Headers

```
if level == 1:
	char = '='
if level == 2:
	char = '-'
if level == 3:
	char = '~'
if level == 4:
	char = '`'
if level == 4:
	char = '.'
```

## Cross References

Cross references to targets like `.. _clipping` do not require a path. Each target in the entire project must be unique.

Cross references to files must have a path. For example, references to the `create_project` file in the `getting-started` folder:`<create_project>` or `Create a Project <create_project>` must have a path. For example:

* From another file in the same folder, use `<create_project>`

* From a file in a different folder, use `<../getting-started/create_project>`

## Indentation

Sphinx is very sensitive to spacing and indentation.

** Do not use tabs ** Sphinx counts number of spaces, so tabs will break documentation builds.

for `toctree`, lines following the directive should be preceded by three spaces:

```
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting Started and Reference

   introduction/index
   getting-started/index
   reference/index
   window-reference/index
   simulation-options/index
```