# CEC Module Library for SAM 2026

This is the first module library generated from the `SixParSolve.py` script developed by Darice and documented at https://github.com/NatLabRockies/pysam/blob/6parsolve/docs/tools/SixParSolve.rst.

I used miniconda3 for Windows installed in my user folder `c:\users\<username>`.

## To Do

Rename `SixParSolve.py` and organize functions into tools for generating SAM library (not just running solver).

Combine steps generating parameters and converting to SAM library format so building the library file generates a single file, unless having the `cec_modules_params` version of the file is useful for non-SAM users.

## Build the Library File

Build the library file by downloading the module data from the CEC website and running the Python script.

### Requirements

Requires conda to install IPOPT.

Copy this to a requirements.txt file:

   ```
   pyomo >= 6.0
   pandas
   numpy
   matplotlib
   openpyxl  # For Excel file reading
   pint # added after error
   ```

### Build Instructions

1. Create a folder containing the following files.

	* `requirements.txt`
	* Excel file from CEC containing module data, e.g., `PV_Module_List_Full_Data_ADA_yyyy-m-d.xlsx`. Download from "Download Excel file" link at https://solarequipment.energy.ca.gov/Home/PVModuleList.
	* `SixParSolve.py`

	Until `6parsolve` branch is merged into `main`, `SixParSolve.py` is available here: https://github.com/NatLabRockies/pysam/blob/6parsolve/files/SixParSolve.py.

	```
	cd path/to/folder
	```

2. Create miniconda3 environment. For this example, environment name is "sixpar-ipopt".

	```
	conda create --name sixpar-ipopt
	```

3. Activate environment.

	```
	conda activate sixpar-ipopt
	```

4. Install pip (need it to install packages from requirements.txt).

	```
	conda install pip
	```

5. Install required Python packages.

	```
	pip install -r requirements.txt
	```

6. Install IPOPT.

	```
	conda install -c conda-forge ipopt
	```

7. Run solver script.

	```
	python SixParSolve.py PV_Module_List_Full_Data_ADA-2026-6-3.xlsx
	```

This generates two CSV files:

* `cec_modules_params_PV_Module_List_Full_Data_ADA_2026-6-23.csv` stores parameters generated by the script, generated by the three passes in the `Main()` function call. 

* `CEC Modules PV_Module_List_Full_Data_ADA_2026-6-23.csv` stores parameters in the SAM library format, generated by `create_sam_library_file()`.

## Test and Clean Library File

1. Open `cec_modules_test.sam` and run `cec_modules_test.lk` to generate list of modules and resulting performance ratios (PR). This tests all modules in the library for a full SAM simulation (lifetime, or over analysis period).

2. Identify modules with 0.655 < PR < 0.82:

  * For modules outside of this range, the shape of the I-V curve shown on SAM's module page looks wrong.

  * Modules in previous library using old method have PR from 0.657114 to 0.830105.

3. Run `remove-bad-modules.py` to create a clean library file with good modules and store a list of bad modules.

## Prepare Library for SAM Release

1. Replace `../SAM/deploy/libraries/CEC Modules.csv` with the new clean library file.

2. Update defaults for modules with name changes due to punctuation differences between old and new library for Detailed PV, PV Battery, and Photovoltaic Wind Battery Hybrid configurations.

3. Run `..SAM/deploy/test_script_ow.lk` to account for small changes in model coefficients due to change in solver.



