CSP Empirical Trough Model
==========================

The empirical trough model models the same type of parabolic trough system as the physical trough model, but uses a set of curve-fit equations derived from regression analysis of data measured from the SEGS projects in the southwestern United States, so you are limited to modeling systems composed of components for which there is measured data. The model is based on Excelergy, originally developed for internal use at at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.

A parabolic trough system is a type of concentrating solar power (CSP) system that collects direct normal solar radiation and converts it to thermal energy that runs a power block to generate electricity. The components of a parabolic trough system are the solar field, power block, and in some cases, thermal energy storage and fossil backup systems. The solar field collects heat from the sun and consists of parabolic, trough-shaped solar collectors that focus direct normal solar radiation onto tubular receivers. Each collector assembly consists of mirrors and a structure that supports the mirrors and receivers, allows it to track the sun on one axis, and can withstand wind-induced forces. Each receiver consists of a metal tube with a solar radiation absorbing surface in a vacuum inside a coated glass tube. A heat transfer fluid (HTF) transports heat from the solar field to the power block (also called power cycle) and other components of the system. The power block is based on conventional power cycle technology, using a turbine to convert thermal energy from the solar field to electric energy. The optional fossil-fuel backup system delivers supplemental heat to the HTF during times when there is insufficient solar energy to drive the power block at its rated capacity.

The empirical parabolic trough model uses a set of equations based on empirical analysis of data collected from installed systems (the SEGS projects in the southwestern United States) to represent the performance of parabolic trough components. The model is based on Excelergy, a model initially developed for internal use at at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. For information about the physical parabolic trough model, see :doc:`Parabolic Trough Physical <../csp-physical-trough-model/troughphysical_overview>`.

For a more detailed description of the empirical trough model, see the draft empirical trough reference manual on the `SAM website <https://sam.nrel.gov/concentrating-solar-power/csp-publications>`__.

.. note:: Many of the input variables in the parabolic trough model are interrelated and should be changed together. For example, the storage capacity, which is expressed in hours of thermal storage, should not be changed without changing the tank heat loss value, which depends on the size of the storage system. Some of these relationships are described in this documentation, but not all.